(fast electronic music)
Brian O'Leary has seen more than just
about any civilian when it comes
to the world of free energy, or zero-point energy devices.
As an idealistic young PhD in space sciences,
he was slated to go to Mars on a NASA mission
when the Vietnam War shifted the US' priorities.
Instead, he became a professor,
teaching at Cornell alongside Carl Sagan
and later at Princeton in the Physics Department.
Ultimately, his broad curiosity
about future technologies in space
brought him to the understanding
that only through free and clean energy
can we progress as a global species.
The rub has been that vested interests
have thwarted this progress at every turn.
(steady rhythmic electronic music)
I'm very happy to be sitting here with you.
I met you the first time about 10 years ago,
but I've known of your work for many years prior to that.
And you have been, you've had a very illustrious career,
but you've been almost, hmm.
You have to, by now, be almost somewhat
of a brokenhearted dreamer to have gone
through as much as you've gone through
to end up where we are today,
which is well, practically speaking,
not very far advanced of where we were
when you started this whole dance.
(laughter)
And so, I would love it, in your book,
you wrote a letter to the younger generation,
which has a lot to do with apologies and regrets
for our generations.
And maybe you can start there.
What propelled you to begin with,
through to now, and the things
that have basically caused you,
forced you to write this letter of apology
to my son's generation?
Well, yes I just turned 70,
so I feel like now it is time to pass on
some of the knowledge that I've gained.
And it does appear to be a difficult road,
but actually it isn't that hard
when I reflect on the fact.
There's a famous I. F. Stone quote is
that "if you expect the see the final results
"of your work, you haven't asked a big enough question."
Yeah.
And the questions that we're asking now,
if we look at the big picture, are really important.
And although they may not impact me
in this body, at this time,
they will impact future generations.
So, it's very important that the future generations know
what some of us have learned
in our long lifetimes.
And so, my own path was,
I had this passionate desire
ever since I was a little kid to explore space.
So, I was very keen on reading any and every book
about rocketry, books by Wernher von Braun,
car, Arthur C. Clarke.
I was convinced that there would be a space program.
Indeed, there was.
In fact, the space program happened so fast
that I turned out to be almost too young
to go to the moon, not too old,
even though people thought I was crazy
when I was kid that I wanted to go to the moon or to Mars.
But, in fact, the space program happened very quickly.
It also, the vital part of the space program ended quickly.
I was appointed to go to Mars as an astronaut,
and then they cut the program because of Vietnam.
So then, I became a major war protester,
March on Washington,
I became a professor at Cornell with Carl Sagan,
and got involved in planetary exploration for a while
through the use of robots.
That was a lot of fun.
And at that time, you see,
I hadn't become an environmentalist.
I hadn't returned my focus onto the Earth.
And it was only much later when I
started to have my own epiphany
and I left the mainstream.
I began to realize that the environmental problems
we have on the Earth are far greater
than what virtually anybody has acknowledged.
And the problems are so huge
that my whole life has been around seeking solutions.
But, my whole life, the second half of my life.
Right, I understand.
And so, what was, if you can go ahead
and characterize what you passed on
in that letter of apology to the youth.
What are the key points?
Well, the key points of the letter.
The key points of what I'm about,
the apology is that our generation
has been very irresponsible.
We have brought in leaders that have
basically been puppets.
That in the public domain, whether it's
the scientific community, the media,
the institutions that have been established
ostensibly for the public good.
None of them has delivered.
And that the word sustainability has become almost a joke.
That the Earth, as we know it,
is going downhill very fast.
That the people that claim sustainability
and use excuses that they're doing their part
is sort of like a tiny fraction
of what's really going to be necessary.
And that we're gonna have to look
at very, very basic change.
We're gonna have to rely more on consciousness
as the ground of all being
rather than reductionistic Western science.
And science itself is in a big crisis.
There's a belief system that we sometimes call scientism
which is a basically a religion that says
anything and everything that we know about
can be proven or disproven in the laboratory.
And that's certainly not true.
Not true.
And in terms of my own growth, personal growth,
around 1979, when I was on the faculty
at Princeton University in the Physics Department,
I went to a Lifespring training.
I had a remote viewing experience.
I was able to tune into a person that I didn't know,
and I had it very accurately described.
And that was the first of what was
to be many experiences I had
that violated the rules and regulations of Western science
such as we knew them.
So that I then had a near-death experience
in an auto accident.
I lifted out of my body.
Around that time, I had no idea
that these things were possible.
So, I was a good subject.
I had a healing experience,
and all of these experiences then
led me to ask the question,
well, are many of these phenomena
that lie outside the box of Western science,
are these susceptible to scientific inquiry
using scientific methods?
And I found that they were.
And then, that began my exploration.
And I pretty much had to leave Princeton at that point which
I'm glad I did.
Not surprisingly.
Which I'm glad I did in retrospect.
John Mack, for example,
you know, when he went outside the box.
He had a clinical psychology at Harvard.
When he went outside the box,
it was only minutes before they tried
to strip him of his tenure and so forth.
And we know anybody who knows a little bit
about that particular movement, abductees, UFOs,
and consciousness and such,
can look up Dr. John Mack.
But, you could very easily have slipped
into a very uncomfortable circumstance.
That's right, and so in a way I think
I'm glad I left before that came down on me.
Little did I realize at the time
that over in the Engineering Quadrangle at Princeton,
Robert Jahn was doing his experiments in the PEAR labs.
These were experiments in consciousness research
where operators in he lab were able
to influence the result of random event generators.
These are little digital coin flips
that basically could be influenced
though human intention.
And that everybody had their own psychic signature
even people that weren't psychically gifted.
And while he was doing those experiments,
they tried to run him out of Princeton.
Right, and at the same time,
this was when Russell Targ and others
were working on very similar experiments
at other facilities, and under funding by the CIA
because this was very valuable technology.
Right, the CIA knows
what's going on.
Sure, they do.
But, the rest of us seem to be divided and ruled
by these malevolent sinister forces,
and that's something which I grew
to appreciate more and more,
commenently with my own exploration
of the phenomena of consciousness.
So, let's talk about that a little bit
because this takes us into some of the regrets
of your generation, my generation,
into what we're handing down into my son's generation.
And this has to do with the fact
that non-polluting freely available energy sources
have been not only conceived of,
but born out through various devices
that have been created all over the world
for really decades now.
It's not a totally new phenomenon
that the prototypes of these devices exist.
We all know that.
That should be common knowledge.
In fact, we'll show something on YouTube in a little bit.
It's so common, you can go to YouTube and find this.
Yet, none of this has really made it
to the light of day.
And this becomes so murky because you're
getting into governmental, as you say, industry,
the more private secret hidden factions of the government.
Intelligence communties, UFO phenomena.
It all seems to come together as soon
as you start talking about freely available
or zero-point energy.
Yes, you know, it took me a long time
to, even I resisted addressing the question of free energy
or zero-point energy or vacuum energy
or any of the more esoteric sounding energy sources
which have been out there and researched
for quite a while.
And so, I finally decided to address that question
in the early 1990s, late 1980s.
I traveled the world.
I visited many of the most promising inventors
and researchers, and found that there
are devices of all kinds out there
that are not at the practical stage,
as practical devices that we can use.
It's like there are a lot of Wright brothers out there
testing out and proving the concept,
but that we haven't gone through the critical step yet
of actually developing a real device
that people can generally use.
That's very inexpensive and accessible to all?
Exactly, and I am fully confident,
by the way that any one or some of these technologies
can be implemented if we had the will,
if we have the courage.
Then, we can move ahead into this.
And I also feel that this option,
the option of so-called free energy,
is the only option available to us now
that makes any sense in meeting even a fraction
of the total energy demand of the world.
So, we have this two-edged sword now.
We have a situation in which there
have been literally hundreds to thousands
of inventors out there that have been divided
and ruled and suppressed.
And we have a concept, whose physics
is gotten much better known.
I've made it a personal study through the years,
over the last three decades actually
to prove to myself that it's experimentally viable
that with a concerted research and development effort,
we can come up with some extraordinary technologies
for clean, cheap, decentralized energy.
And it would just blow the whole energy prices wide open,
and we could solve our principle problem
of sustainability which is that we've
been using very dirty energy.
And can I just say something here?
It doesn't matter whether you're for the prevailing agendas
having to do with global warming
or whether you're not.
The point is, we're using filthy energy.
We're creating huge socioeconomic
chaos around the planet as a result of trying
to extract and own these resources.
I mean, there's every single reason not
to be dependent on this anymore,
aside from what's going on globally.
And just forget the degradation of the environment.
I mean, that's something that often seems
to get buried now.
Yes.
Just to have a very polluted, unclean,
unsustainable environment at ground level.
And I just wanted to say, it doesn't matter
what your feelings are and who's camp you're in
on global warming.
That's right.
This extends far beyond that.
Yeah, this transcends the global warming
climate change issue.
Issues come and go.
They're like fads.
Yes.
And I subscribe to the precautionary principle
that if there's any chance that the climate change
is as drastic as it appears to be,
based on the analyses of the climate science community,
then we had better very quickly go off
of our addiction to oil and coal
and any of the fossil fuels.
We should even get off of our addiction to biofuels
which are no great bargain.
In fact, it's been calculated by some people
like David Pimentel at Cornell University,
professor of biology, that if you
had an economy based on ethanol from corn,
you actually would use more hydrocarbons,
more fossil fuels than if you were
to just use the fossil fuels because
of the infrastructure development around that.
And so, in my own world, and I've had years
and years of history as an energy advisor
to presidential candidates, and as a professor
of energy studies.
A lot of time
in DC where it was happening.
Yes, yes
with Morris Udall when he ran for president in 1975.
So, given my years and years of experience,
I would encourage younger people, for example,
I would love a graduate student
to get his hands around the topic of well, let's honestly
assess all alternative energy sources,
the ones we now have, the ones that we could have,
in a more open world.
And let's just see how they stack up
in terms of their full lifecycle environmental costs.
And what people neglect to do,
they see fragments of it.
And there is a promotional bias,
like you'll hear from in this very, very commercial world,
you'll hear some people propose biofields, others hydrogen.
Others saying, "Oh, we have the answer, fuel cells."
Or somebody else might say solar,
this kind of solar or this kind of wind power,
or this kind of hydropower, or geothermal power.
And the people that talk about these things
usually promote that to the exclusion of other things.
And one of the great disappointments I found
in my own analyses is that there's a problem
with each one of them.
I would love to be a solar advocate, and I am.
Let's talk about the problem with solar
from what you have been able to ascertain.
Well, the problem with solar, in terms of it fulfilling
the current energy demand of the world,
or even a fraction of it, is that the materials' costs
and the environmental cost of developing
the materials for solar collectors
for the whole planet is prohibitive.
It's about $20 to $40 trillion dollars,
and the amount of mining of materials
would just ruin the face of the Earth.
You just can't do it.
I wish you could.
I wish we didn't have to go into this--
Well, it sounds so clean.
Gather free energy from the sun.
But, you're right, yes the interface between
energetic output and the sun can be very,
as you say costly and damaging
to the environment as well, right?
That's right, and the same is true of wind power.
The windmills litter the landscape.
You'd have to have literally millions and millions
and millions of them to have any appreciable dent
on the whole energy economy.
And the materials used and the replacement of parts,
the disposal of parts that are no longer useful
becomes a big problem.
All you have to do is see the YouTube video
The Story of Stuff with Annie Leonard.
Yes, that's wonderful.
From cradle to grave, you're dealing
with a very intensive
environmentally damaging system.
And if you're really serious about sustainability,
you're gonna have to look outside the box.
And of course, this is where free energy comes in.
The concepts of free energy are alive and well,
but they must be responsibly implemented.
Well, and not just responsibly implemented.
They have to first of all, stop being suppressed.
We're talking about some of the,
you know I've interviewed a lot of people
in what is termed the conspiracy world,
and a lot of their concerns are for very good reason.
You bumped up against it yourself in this arena.
If you wouldn't mind making comment
on a couple of people, for example,
such as your friend, Eugene Mallove.
I would love to know more about that story.
I mean, I've read about him in your book,
and the whole story of cold fusion.
What he put on the line to try to bring truth out.
People need to start understanding
what these people have been up against.
Yes, yes, I had a bumper sticker for a number of years
that said, the truth will set you free,
but first it will piss you off.
(laughs) Or kill you.
Or kill you, yes it does engender
a great deal of resistance.
Another wonderful quote, Burton Russell,
"The resistance to a new idea increases
"as the square of its importance."
And throughout history, the most important ideas
have been scuttled by the mainstream.
And people don't want it because they
unconsciously, especially, but to a degree,
consciously feel that threatens their way of life.
And that certainly is what's going on now.
Here we are talking about a multi-trillion dollar per year
energy economy that's based mostly on oil.
And everywhere in world, we're all addicted to oil.
We all use it.
It's the only show in town, basically, for running our cars.
And the other hydrocarbons, coal, oil
for generating electricity, or nuclear power.
And these are all bad news.
I hate to say it, but the world is being destoyed
by these technologies.
It's really that extreme.
And we don't have to look that far into that question.
Certainly, your viewers, if you wanna know
more about it, the information is out there in spades.
You have a load of it on your website.
If you wanna know anything about any technology,
there's almost nothing you can't find on your website.
So, we'll guide people to that in a bit.
But, let's talk about some of the really profound potentials
that have come out.
Let's talk about cold fusion.
Let's talk about Eugene.
Well, OK, cold fusion, which is a funny term
and it may not actually be the term that sticks.
That's part of the problem is that we,
sometimes we don't even know how to find the words
to describe what we're talking about because it's so new.
But, cold fusion
or low-energy radioactive,
no high energy, low radioactive
induced, chemically induced nuclear reactions
is a very interesting,
almost accidental discovery in 1989
by two chemists at the University of Utah,
Stanley Pons and Martin Fleischmann who discovered
that if you dip a palladium alloy into a solution
of heavy water and you send an electrical current,
then you find that nuclear reactions
might occur on the cathode,
generating an enormous amount of heat energy.
And this experiment has been
replicated many times since then.
And the science writer for MIT, the chief science writer
Eugene Mallove, who himself has a doctorate in the sciences,
discovered that the MIT scientists,
the nuclear physicists that tried
to replicate the results
of Fleischmann and Pons committed fraud
in not really honestly
reporting on their replication.
'Cause they were trying to disprove?
They were trying to disprove it
because their vested interest
wasn't hot nuclear tokamak fusion reaction
simulating the inside of the sun,
and building these behemoth reactors.
Tens of billions of dollars of tax money
and so forth and so on.
And these people's careers relied on the success,
or potential success of that approach.
And then, here you have a couple of chemists
from the University of Utah coming up
with some results at room temperature
on a tabletop apparatus.
So, you're dealing with a whole different approach
to the question, and one that raises the hackles
of the vested interest.
And so, this has happened throughout the history of science.
But Eugene was brave enough
to take this on?
Gene Mallove took it on,
and he told the truth and it was very painful.
He was basically shoved out of MIT for his heresy.
He then went on his own and began
editing Infinity Energy magazine
and became one of the world's foremost spokesmen
for new energy technologies,
and was quite a force in doing that.
And in the year '04, he was brutally murdered.
Now, we don't know exactly the motive.
Of course, many of these murders that do take place
of some of the leading researchers in energy,
their death, the cause of their death,
is not necessarily--
They don't leave notes.
They don't leave notes, that's for one thing.
Some of them are--
The perpetrator
doesn't leave a note (laughs) compliments of.
No, and there's almost always a cover story
or another interpretation of the death.
It could be a natural heart attack.
It could be a robbery, as in the case of Mallove.
He was robbed.
Or it could be an apparent suicide without a note.
Yes, suiciding people.
So, there are actually literally dozens of these cases
of people that have been violently murdered
or threatened or assaulted.
And so, that's one very big reason
why these technologies have never seen the light of day.
And we know others personally
who have been threatened.
They've had their laboratories broken into.
They've had their devices stolen, smashed.
I mean, I've heard a lot of these stories myself,
and I'm not nearly as deeply involved as what you have been.
So, you've been exposed to a lot of ugly stuff.
Another one that was just heart-raking.
In fact, I remember reading the articles
that had come out after Penn and what
is the other, his partner's name?
The other one, the two fellas in Utah.
What are their names again?
Oh, Pons and Fleischmann.
Pons and Fleischmann, yes.
I remember reading the articles coming out
basically discrediting what they had done at the time.
So, as a layperson, I just let it go.
Oh well, I guess that was just a load of hot air.
And this is the spinning in the public perception
in someone who reads maybe a casual science magazine
like myself, pretty much puts the end
to any energetic demand or impetus around this.
And this happens repeatedly.
But, let's talk about something that was very exciting.
A couple years ago, in fact we saw it on CNN,
that inventor, again, met a horrible death
as soon as the buzz started around his technology,
and this is was Stanley Meyer.
Yes, yes.
He talked about
his technology and what happened to him?
Well, this is a man who had a device
that basically, where you could
run your car in water
and drive it over long distances.
And the kinds of technologies here,
and by the way, they're out there.
They're fairly prevalent, is that you can
manipulate the water molecule in such a way
that you can electroyze the water.
You can divide it into oxygen and hydrogen
much less energetically than the normal electrolysis
of normal H2O.
And in so doing, you get
more energy out of the hydrogen
that you create on demand, than you used it
to electrolyze it in the first place.
So, that is basically a concept of overunity.
All you need is a little bit of water
and you can run your car across the country.
I mean, the world was really
getting buzzed about this one.
He'd made is onto mainstream news even.
Other people had been reading about it,
but he pretty quickly, once he came out with this,
he had made it onto mainstream news.
I remember watching a report about him on CNN, right?
And then, within two weeks, he was out of the picture.
Right, right, yep.
Yeah, he was poisoned.
At a restaurant.
Yes, that is the story, and it's one
of many, many sad stories.
And you know--
What happened
to that technology?
What happens when these inventors
are killed or pushed aside or destroyed
in one way or another, then what happens?
Well, it's different in individual cases,
and in this case, I would say fortunately,
there have been many people
that have been working on these technologies
all over the world.
And sooner or later, it will get out there.
But still, you see a given inventor
who's very successful and can actually
have a working prototype.
Once you get to that stage,
that's where it can become dangerous,
and that's been true throughout the history
of radical energy development
or breakthrough clean energy development.
And what is the fear
of those who essentially suppress
or control our technologies.
I mean, we know some of the motivations.
We know, we can understand the greed factor, certainly.
But, what else?
It has to be more than that, right?
Well, yes of course there's the greed factor,
and that's transparent.
The fact is that directly challenging
this multi-trillion dollar economy and vested interest is,
is in and of itself, a big threat from their perception.
So, the people in control want to wring
every gallon of oil out of the ground that they can,
can get away with for as long as they
can get away with it, to optimize
their short-term profits per unit time.
That's the kind of what I call a Lapis Pig factor.
It's the optimization of capitalistic gain
in a competitive environment.
But, you're right, it is more than that.
There are control elements.
There are powers behind the throne.
I think we're seeing many symptoms about this,
not only in the area of energy development.
We're seeing it in the military industrial complex,
going to war, the whole financial crisis.
The financial community and the greed
that's going on there.
It seems to be an ever-further consolidation
of control in which the effects
are as a ridiculous degree of unsustainablity
whether it's the fighting of wars.
Whether it's the implementation
of Monsanto type agriculture
or pharmaceutical overkill.
In all of these areas, there is a great deal
of control that's happening, consolidation of control.
And this, of course, has happened throughout
the history of the world.
So, Western civilization, such as
we know it now, is crumbing.
It's falling apart.
The empire is falling apart,
but there is good news on the horizon,
and that's the part--
There is,
and well, and we're going to spend the last part
of the interview talking about nothing but that.
I just want to kind of still pick through
a few of the little obstacles.
You started, yourself, having encounters
with the intelligence community.
I think it was what 1987 when you
started becoming involved in,
well, it had another name prior to ISIS,
but the Institute for Cooperation in Space
and you were really positioning yourself
against the Star Wars program,
not only creating enemies on the ground,
but let's create 'em in space too.
What do ya think?
Who gets that contract?
Yeah, yeah, I know.
I've been kind of a thorn in the side
of the military industrial complex.
And I'm basically heeding Eisenhower's warning
when he left office that the military industrial complex
is becoming so powerful, there's very little
you can do about.
It's basically heralding the end of democracy as we know it.
It's consolidating ever-increasing military force,
military power, and lucrative contracts.
And now, of course in the US,
the military budget is higher than it's ever been,
even higher than World War II, adjusted for inflation.
And yet, the people of the US
don't have a chance to speak out about that.
No, they have not.
And there have been a few brave souls.
One of them, Congressman Dennis Kucinich,
and I found that a rather interesting journey.
And he's a very different kind of being.
I have met him.
I know you've met him and in fact,
I remember what occurred
around his space-based weapons,
the bill he tried to introduce regarding space-based,
banning on space-based weapons.
And the compromises and such that
were occurring at that time.
Again, like I said in the beginning,
this is a complex and murky picture
that we're talking about here.
You had a conglomeration of individuals
that were free energy advocates,
anti-Star Wars advocates, everyone in the same room,
and Kucinich was really trying to carry
some of this forward.
But the bill was compromised because
he tagged on something regarding chemtrails.
And I was there, actually, at his,
right after he had removed that
from the language of that bill.
And it was when he announced his run
for president the first time,
that someone said, "Why did you do that?"
And very practically and briefly he said,
"Look, it's simple.
"I can't, I can't do it.
"The whole thing goes down if I don't take that out."
I think the whole thing went down anyway, didn't it?
But, the point is that's when I met you.
You were in and around all of these things going on.
What was happening at this very tenuous time
when a few good souls really were
trying to make some public inroads?
This was around 9/11, by the way.
Yeah, I know.
There were a lot of things going on around that time,
and I've done some work with Dennis
and he's a very good man.
Yes.
He had asked me to work with him in legislation
for the provision of research and development
on new energy technologies.
And so often, when something gets sabotaged,
it's not necessarily sabotaged
by the powers that be, the elitists.
Sometimes, it's sabotaged just by the individuals
who are allies and who
don't know really what they're doing
or how the system works.
So, sometimes things get sabotaged
just by the people with good intentions.
So, it's a very complex thing.
There are many gates you have to go through
in order to make something politically viable in the US.
And I have found it very frustrating
because the new energy research and development bill
was basically killed as a result of the egos
of some of the people that were promoting the bill.
Now, isn't that amazing?
Yeah, yeah it's, so many people
are into their careers.
And fortunately, at this very ripe old age of mine,
all my work in these areas is voluntary,
so I don't have any ox to gore or vested interest to defend
or career to build.
But, in Washington, appearances can become so important.
And so, the political part of my career
has become a lot more global
and a lot more focused on some
of the issues that we face in South America and Ecuador.
saving the rain forest so forth.
Which I find a great deal more attractable now
because the whole US political system,
it seems like just about everybody,
except for Kucinich, is bought out.
And even he had that little plane ride
with Obama recently.
Obama, yes.
And that made my heart very sad.
I can't imagine what was said to him
and what it took to make him buckle,
but that was a sad day.
It was a sad day, but you're probably
also aware that the pressures
on these guys--
Oh, no doubt.
Absolutely enormous.
And they're like puppets.
And you don't know what's really going on
behind the scenes with Obama whether somebody
is almost literally--
Absolutely.
Pointing a gun to his head
and saying, "Do this, do this, don't do this."
I have a feeling that he has to walk a very narrow path
or else he's out.
I believe
that's true, yeah, I believe that is true.
And this has probably been true
since the time of JFK who did have the courage
to stand up and go for some truths
that were very painful.
Oh, they went
after the Federal Reserve.
He really tried to create disclosure
regarding military suppressed information
regarding ET contact.
He went for it.
And he wanted to, in his words,
"splinter the CIA into a million pieces".
Exactly.
And that really got their dander up
and of course, they ended his life.
So, it's been a dangerous place
for a president to be since those times.
Yes, yes, and so the president
really has no power.
The people have no power.
Congress is bought out, and that's the kind
of system we're dealing with here.
And at the same time,
we have this incredible awakening
of mass consciousness occurring
which really is exponentially growing by the minute.
I mean, you can even see it, we can even see it
just from the interaction of ourselves
at Conscious Media Network and the public-at-large
around the world.
People are waking, they are smelling the coffee
in that something is not right around here.
So, that part, I think, most, not most
but a good percentage of people have.
But, now this next leap is
creating the conscious community-at-large
that has essentially enough creative juice
to be able to bring some of these things
into reality, in spite of living
within a fairly corrupt system,
and that's globally.
That's not just the US.
That's globally.
It might be a little more manageable
in a smaller country, but the corruption
seems to be pervasive.
Where's there's power,
you have corruption.
Exactly.
So, how do you, 'cause you're also
very in your own heart, very much
a very conscious and deeply spiritual being.
And so, how do we bring about a spiritual transformation
that can really bring in on its heels then
these solutions to start soothing the woes
of the planet environmentally?
Well, first of all, obviously there's the recognition
that the path we're going on,
if we keep going in the direction we're going.
And if we don't manage
to relieve the oppression
that's now happening, then we're not gonna make it.
I really believe that.
One can only project into the future the path
that we're now taking and how it's just not gonna work.
That's the bad news.
The good news is that more and more people
are awakening.
There is a nonlinear effect there.
There are experiments in consciousness
and this was really my path during the 1980s into the '90s.
It was a time of intense metaphysical exploration,
but also scientific exploration
of questions that had been forbidden to be asked
in Western science that lie outside
of the box of Western science,
but nevertheless, are very real.
And some of the experiments
that were first done at Princeton in the laboratories,
the PEAR labs of Robert Jahn and then later Dean Radin,
show that these random event generators
cohere in a nonlinear way when people
such as bonded couples and then larger groups
combine in positive human intention.
They can literally change the material of the world.
And so, the awakening in consciousness
which has been divided and ruled
up until relatively recently, is beginning
to get traction.
I do believe that.
Now, people have talked about this 20 years ago,
but then it was just talk.
Now, I am quite a bit more encouraged,
just like you are.
And I don't know what it is.
It's just some sort of new energy
that has come into me to be able
to, let's say, take this trip, come back to the US,
not feel the fears that I felt.
Maybe even an element of paranoia thrown in.
That that's now lifting.
The cloud is lifting.
The people are getting more friendly.
And those of us that have been
in this movement for a long, long time,
I think are beginning to see the light.
And you were, just to backtrack a few seconds.
You hadn't been back to the states for a few years.
You've had your experiences
along the way having to interface, like it or not,
with the intelligence communities and so forth.
What you do is a matter of public record,
and has been perceived as a threat at times
to the vested interests.
So, you're coming back into the country,
not surprisingly, with a little trepidation.
Well, that's true.
The last time I was here, I saw you in Mount Shasta.
That was about three years ago, maybe four years ago.
And I do see a lightening of energy.
I am sensitive to energies.
And on the one hand, I do see a lot
of people that are dumbing down
and kind of obese
and into consumerism and stuff. (laughs)
But, I also see a lot of people
that are awakening.
It is a very dramatic unfoldment.
Well, I wanted you to share it
because for that reason.
It's nice sometimes to get a reflection
when you've been away, and have it reflected back at us.
I thought maybe you would have felt
overwhelmed, you know, with an oppressive energy.
I didn't know what you would find
when you came back here.
But, such was not the case even at the airport.
That's right.
Yeah, coming in was a really friendly guy
at Homeland Security
You know, I have to acknowledge that,
that all kinds of people.
I've see my family.
It was a very pleasant, compassionate visit
even though we may not agree politically,
or how to go about doing things.
There was a lot of well-wishing.
And really it's an energetic thing.
I tend to be a very sensitive person,
so I can kind of read energies
and I can see that people,
not only want to change,
but they're feeling more compassionate.
They're feeling more love than they have before.
So, there's a new kind
of wind under our wings collectively
that's occurring here, and that we're generating together.
So, on very practical level,
we have to, it always has to come back down
to awareness which starts with some education.
Absolutely.
How do we begin
educating ourselves as to what that potentials are?
How do we, as the masses, know what
to put our support behind even
when most of this information
is relatively suppressed anyway?
You can go on YouTube.
You can find it.
You can go on your site and find it.
So, how do we begin this process
of education so we know who to let go of
and who to support from this point forward?
Well, I think it's up to the individual.
It's up to all of us to take the responsibility
of finding out what's possible.
What kind of future do you want for us to have?
For example, the free energy technologies.
Yes, that would probably constitute
the biggest revolution in the history of the world.
And immediately followed
by the new science of consciousness
which will allow us to raise our consciousness
which has to be a concombinant process
with the implementation of the new energy.
Because we have to be responsible
for implementing these new technologies.
We can't screw up again.
We can't go the way of nuclear power, for example,
which most of us know would be disasterous
if we were to have a nuclear power society
because of the long-live radioactive waste.
Yes, we've seen evidence
of what that brings, yes.
The dangerous
technology, the safety of the power plants and so forth.
So, we have to now embrace
the possibility that we could have totally clean energy.
You could have a 10 kilowatt power pack
you could fit in the palm of your hand
and stick it in your circuit breaker box
or put it under the hood of your car.
Or which could be implemented worldwide
to relieve poverty and to be able to
for example, desalinate and purify water.
You can do all kinds of things with this technology,
but you can also abuse it.
And so, you don't want Dick Cheney
running this one again.
No, (laughs) no.
And so, the problems are more social and political
than they are technical.
Practical
and technical, yes.
Yeah, the technical, I'm convinced
the technology is there.
Yes.
But, the people that do the technology
need to be protected.
They need to be able to be allowed
to do their research and development and supported.
But, right along with that, we need responsible government,
and we don't need economic selfishness anymore.
We don't want somebody to become
the Bill Gates of new energy
and then control the technology.
I think the whole thing ought to be open source.
Yes.
Just put out there for the benefit of everybody.
But, at the same time, I also realize
that we have, it's Prometheus
playing with fire that the human civilization has
to raise its consciousness enough
so that these technologies and the ones to follow
could be responsibly implemented.
So, there is no separating consciousness
from our future technologies any longer.
There isn't.
And of course, the new science and technology
of consciousness is totally different
from the older science of reductionism, materialism.
This is where we can, through our intention,
literally transform the material world.
We can create energy.
We can create matter.
We're very powerful creators,
but when I use the word we,
I mean all of humanity.
We can't afford anymore to have people
try to consolidate their power evermore
and control us.
Yes,
decentralization is critical in terms of energy now.
Exactly.
Yes.
And so, we're talking about, in the end,
and it seems like it doesn't really matter
what the subject is or who I'm talking with anymore,
it's really simple.
We need to get out of the fear model
and the pointing fingers model and the they model,
into taking our power back in every sense of the word.
And as you say, taking the power back gently.
Moving forward gently in this, what is a revolution
as your book states.
This is revolution, but we can't do it
in the old way of revolution.
No, no.
And so, that's the daunting task
that's before us which is that we need a revolution,
but the revolution should be non-violent,
and it needs to be for the benefit of everybody.
And humanity has never done this before,
but the good news again is that
the phenomena of consciousness, of oneness,
of our interconnectivity, of love and compassion
for all creation, of the mandate
to be in balance with nature and one another
could never be clearer to more of us.
And getting beyond the rhetoric of change.
Now, we need a whole new rhetoric
and consummation of that which
is whole new social structures,
whole new government structures.
A relocalization effort.
And first and foremost,
peace, sustainability and justice.
These are high principles,
and they need to be developed as soon as possible.
We need to develop them individually,
internally, so that we even begin to express
this in a larger sense.
Yes, yes, yeah,
and that's a daunting task.
It's not take a lot of quote work
in terms of time consumption.
It has to take a whole new perspective,
a whole new change internally, each of us,
to be responsible for our part in the whole picture.
And we are, in part, responsible
for this by turning a blind eye,
by not choosing to know more,
by not following up on a titillating page 14 article
about some new breakthrough.
That's on us.
We're not demanding any better of the situation.
We have not been
demanding any better.
That's right.
Yeah, we've allowed, you know,
when I talk about the suppression of a new energy
or any kind of new
breakthrough situation,
I list a lot of factors.
The scientists are doing the suppressing.
Environmentalists, people that call
themselves environmentalists, they are too.
They're not really embracing the solutions.
They're great at stating the problems.
Activism often focuses more
on the problem than the solution
is an issue, yeah.
Exactly.
Yeah, and so, scientists, environmentalists,
the progressives.
I know a lot of wonderful progressive people,
and boy do they, is their critique articulate.
But, they don't really understand the solutions.
They don't get to the solutions.
They don't, even some of them,
the brighter of them, friends of mine,
can't really see beyond that.
Or they're maybe afraid.
There is this unconscious fear
of embracing the possibility.
I'd like to, as part of the educational process,
I'd like to stimulate debate.
I'd like to talk with people that would prefer
not to see new energy happen.
You know, for maybe very good reasons
like bigger power saws, people with personal helicopters.
You know, and bigger weapons.
All of those things could happen,
and so this requires a level
of personal and collective integrity
that has never happened before.
But, I like you have faith.
I have faith that something, there is something new.
I can feel it.
There is a rejuvenation that's occurring
on almost a cellular level that I think
is going to carry us forward into this.
There's no doubt it's going to go this way, in my mind.
No doubt.
It's just a matter of how soon?
And how chaotic or bumpy the ride might get
between here and there?
But, we will end up there.
Well, we need all the help
we can get.
We do, we do.
And we are getting help.
I think we're getting help from off-planet.
I believe it.
And I think we also can ask for the help.
We need to be willing to receive it.
We need to get away from this consciousness
of dumbing down and allowing
the negativity to unfold,
and take the lead.
And bring as many people with us
as we can, especially younger people.
So, that's why the education is so important
because I'm not gonna be on this planet
a whole lot longer, unless of course I am.
(laughs) Unless you are.
And so, it's their--
They need
to pick it up now.
Their heritage.
Pick it up with the new consciousness
that they're already moving into and possess.
Now, for you, you're going back Vilcabamba
before too long, and your beautiful home Monte Suenos?
Monte Suenos, mountain dreams.
Monte Suenos in Vilcabamba, Ecuador.
And you've seen that country through a lot
of change as well.
You've seen what's happened,
well in more recent times anyway.
And so, it's a little scaled down a little bit smaller,
a little more manageable and change happens
a little more quickly.
Are you learning a fair amount from the experience
of living outside the US and experience it?
Oh yes, we love it there because we,
well first of all, we're retirement age.
We wanted affordable retirement.
We wanted to get out of the kind
of stressful environment.
And it's very unstressful there.
We're up in the Andes.
The weather's perfect and Meredith and I
quite unexpectedly created an eco-retreat conference center
and B and B service, which we're very gladly
as Ma and Pa, conducting these days,
kind of in a low-keyed way.
And people love it because it's really
getting away from it all
Yes.
And yet, we still are tuned into the internet.
We can take nature hikes.
The scenery is fantastic.
The air is clean, no chemtrails,
and you know, as soon as I get there,
I wonder, my gosh, I went to all these cities.
I went on this tour and now I'm back.
It's sort of like two lifetimes that are so separate.
But, there is magic going on there.
That's the good news that in consciousness,
we know that what we've been able
to do to create this place is right on target
because the universe is cooperating with us in ways that we
have never, never felt before.
So, you're in
the right place.
My son was there and met you there
a few years ago and reported back
that it was just a splendid energy.
And that was, and he visited before
we even created the place.
That's right.
Our place now is kind of magnificent,
artistic environment on a mountainside
in a lush tropical garden.
Ah, to dream.
OK, so one day I'm hoping that Scott and I
can make our way down and just chill out
and have some enlivening creative discussion
along the way as well.
We'll see how that works out.
Yeah, yeah, well you're warmly welcome.
Thank you and thank you for spending time
with us today.
I really appreciate it, Brian.
My pleasure.
(flowing instrumental music)
For a more detailed account of Brian's journey
in this world and his call to action,
you can buy his book The Energy Solution Revolution
at Amazon and other book sellers.
To dig deeper, you'll find a treasure trove
of information and links on his website
at brianoleary.com.
For another interview on the topic
of alternative technologies, you might also
be interested in our interview with Tom Valone.
Until next time, thanks for watching CMN.